---
title: "AIChE Proceedings Talk on Embedded Approximate Deep Neural Network Controllers"
collection: talks
type: "Conference Proceedings"
permalink: /talks/2020-11-20-AIChE
venue: "American Institute of Chemical Engineers 2020 Annual Meeting"
date: 2020-11-20
location: "San Francisco, CA (virtual)"
---

My 2020 AIChE Annual Meeting Presentation on Embedded Deep-learning Robust Model Predictive Control (MPC) of Fast-sampling Atmospheric Pressure Plasma Jets using Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs).

**Kimberly J. Chan, Angelo D. Bonzanini, and Ali Mesbah**

*Abstract* - 
With the ever increasing availability of data and computational power, there has been a rapid development of learning-based control strategies, such as learning-based model predictive control (L-MPC), used to control highly-complex nonlinear systems [1], [2], [3]. L-MPC is particularly powerful in control of systems that involve safety considerations and have limited first-principles descriptions. Atmospheric pressure plasma jets (APPJs) used in biomedical applications are a prime example of such systems [4], and are increasingly used, for example, to shrink cancerous tumors [5], increase the rate of wound healing [6], and deactivate antibiotic-resistant bacteria[7]. Thus, controlling the nonlinear effects of the plasma on the target substrate in the presence of intrinsic variabilities as well as exogenous disturbances is crucial in achieving safe and effective operation of the APPJ. In addition, the fast dynamics of the APPJ require fast control implementations. Given the increased accessibility in machine learning (ML) computational tools, the desire to implement control strategies with highly complex models onto resource-limited embedded systems has increased significantly [8]. Implementation on an embedded system addresses the limitation of latency between capturing data and receiving results to perform an operation due to the nature of system level modeling languages on the software side and direct implementation of the “system on chip” (SoC) on the hardware side [9]. However, effective hardware implementation depends, in part, on the solution complexity of L-MPC strategies, which is strongly dependent on system size, control policy parametrization, prediction horizon, as well as amount of data used to learn the model. 

In this work, we explore the implementation of approximate L-MPC strategies using field programmable gate array (FPGA) based architecture. FPGAs have become increasingly popular not only for their increased computational power over standard microcontrollers, but also for their configurability and potential to further speed up control performance via methods such as parallelization and pipelining [10]. However, the challenges of implementation on such hardware applications include limited memory and a tradeoff between design complexity and performance. Therefore, in an effort to reduce the online computational complexity and address the low memory requirement of the embedded controller, we use deep neural networks (DNN) to approximate the implicit MPC law with a cheap-to-evaluate explicit control law. Closed-loop simulations as well as real-time control experiments on a lab-built APPJ setup demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed embedded approximate L-MPC strategy in controlling highly nonlinear systems at fast time-scales.


References:
1. J. Kocijan, R. Murray-Smith, C. E. Rasmussen, and A. Girard, “Gaussian Process Model Based Predictive Control,” in Proceedings of the 2004 American Control Conference, 2004, pp. 2214–2219.
2. B. Likar and J. Kocijan, “Predictive control of a gas–liquid separation plant based on a gaussian process model,” Computers & chemical engineering, vol. 31, no. 3, pp. 142–152, 2007.
3. C. J. Ostafew, A. P. Schoellig, and T. D. Barfoot,“Learning-based non-linear model predictive control to improve vision-based mobile robot path-tracking in challenging outdoor environments,” in Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, 2014, pp. 4029–4036.
4. A. Mesbah and D. B. Graves, “Machine learning for modeling, diagnostics, and control of non-equilibrium plasmas,” Journal of Physics D: Applied Physics, vol. 52, no. 30, 2019.
5. G. Fridman, G. Friedman, A. Gutsol, A. B. Shekhter, V. N. Vasilets, and A. Fridman, “Applied plasma medicine,” Plasma Processes and Polymers, vol. 5, no. 6, pp. 503–533, 2008.
6. D. Gidon, B. Curtis, J. A. Paulson, D. B. Graves, and A. Mesbah, “Model-Based Feedback Control of a kHz-Excited Atmospheric Pres- sure Plasma Jet,” IEEE Transactions on Radiation and Plasma Medical Sciences, vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 129–137, 2018.
7. H.-R. Metelmann, D. S. Nedrelow, C. Seebauer, M. Schuster, T. von Woedtke, K. D. Weltmann, S. Kindler, P. H. Metelmann, S. E. Finkelstein, D. D. Von Hoff, and F. Podmelle, “Head and neck cancer treatment and physical plasma,” Clinical Plasma Medicine, vol. 3, no. 1, pp. 17–23, 2015.
8. S. Lucia, D. Navarro, B. Karg, H. Sarnago, and O. Lucia, “Deep learning- based model predictive control for resonant power converters,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, 2020.
9. E. Monmasson and M. N. Cirstea, “Fpga design methodology for industrial control systems—a review,” IEEE transactions on industrial electronics, vol. 54, no. 4, pp. 1824–1842, 2007.
10. M. H. Ghasemi, O. Lucia, and S. Lucia, “Computing in the blink of an eye: Current possibilities for edge computing and hardware-agnostic programming,” IEEE Access, 2020.

YouTube (video) [link](https://youtu.be/7Y0qsM_Sdrg)
